.\" mptcpcrunch man page
.\" 
.TH man 1 "22 May 2017" "0.1" "mptcpcrunch man page"
.SH NAME
mptcpcrunch \- Read in pcap containing a single MPTCP connection and output
connection information.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "mptcpcrunch " "[" "-h" "] [" "-c" "] [" "-s" "] " 
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mptcpcrunch
is a tool for outputting connection-level and subflow-level information
for an MPTCP connection contained in
.IR "filename" "."
Only packets belonging to a single MPTCP connection should be present in
.IR "filename" ","
or else the output of
.B mptcpcrunch
will be unknown. The companion program
.B mptcpsplit
can be used to create a file containing only packets belonging to a
single MPTCP connection that can then be used as input to
.BR "mptcpcrunch" "."
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.BI "mptcpcrunch " "filename"
Read in
.I filename
but do not output any connection or subflow information. This may still be
useful to see if any other errors are thrown then reading in
.IR "filename" "."
.TP
.BI "mptcpcrunch -s " "filename"
Read in
.I filename
and output information about the subflows seen and tracked in the file. See
.B OUTPUT
section for more information on what information is included.
.TP
.BI "mptcpcrunch -c " "filename"
Read in
.I filename
and output information about the MPTCP connection contained in the file. See
.B OUTPUT
section for more information on what information is included.

.SH POSITIONAL ARGUMENTS
.SS Required arguments
.TP
.I "filename"
.I filename
is a pcap file containing packets for a single MPTCP connection.
.B mptcpcrunch
will read in this file, process its contents, and generate output based
on the other options present at runtime. A pcap containing a single MPTCP
connection can be created with the program
.BR "mptcpsplit" ". Exactly one filename must be given, or else"
.R the program will exit on an error.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options
.TP
.B -h
Print out a help dialog and exit.
.TP
.B -s
Process the packets in
.I filename
and write subflow-level information to stdout. Format for the output
can be found in the
.B OUTPUT
section.
.TP
.B -c
Process the packets in
.I filename
and write connection-level information to stdout. Format for the output
can be found in the
.B OUTPUT
section.

.SH OUTPUT
There are currently two modes of output that can be generated,
.B connection-level
information and
.B subflow-level
information.

.TP
.B Connection-level information format
Connection-level information includes three lines of output. The first
line contains some meta information about the connection. The second
and third lines contain information about each connection direction.
Data in all three lines is labeled when output with the format
"LABEL: DATA".

.TP
.B Subflow-level information format
For each subflow in a connection, output three lines of output. The
first line contains the subflow number. The second and third lines
contain statistics on each direction for the subflow. Like
connection-level information, all data is labeled when output.

.SH LIMITATIONS
.B mptcpcrunch
is still under development and may not work under certain conditions due to
incomplete code. Known limitations include:
.TP
.B No IPv6 support
Currently only IPv4 is supported. IPv6 support is planned for future releases.

.TP
.B Little-Endian Only
.B mptcpcrunch
has only been developed and tested on little-endian machines. Certain code
(like bitfields) may need to be reworked to support big-endian machines.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mptcpsplit (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Matt Sargent
